10 Reasons to Study in the UK
1.how will the knowledge and skills you gain from your programme of study help you with the type of work you hope to do?

1. High quality education
UK universities have an impressive international reputation and rank among the best in the world – did you know that four of the global top ten are in the UK! 
Research carried out by UK universities also impacts our lives every day, and is internationally renowned for its excellence. By studying in the UK, you’ll be
 immersing yourself in centuries of high quality academia.

2. International students are welcomed
The UK has a long history of welcoming international students to study at its universities, and those who decide to study in the UK will be rubbing shoulders
 with some of the brightest minds from all corners of the globe.

3. Variety of courses
SI-UK’s course search showcases the wide variety of courses available for international students to choose from, whatever your age, ability or interest. 
If you wish to study subjects such as business, alongside hospitality and tourism in a dual honours degree, you can!

4. High standards of teaching
UK universities are inspected regularly by the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education to ensure that they maintain the high standards of learning 
which are expected. As a student you will get the opportunity to be taught by the world’s leading academics and to be creative and develop skills sets and confidence.

5. Shorter courses
Most undergraduate courses in the UK take three years to complete, and shorter courses means a quicker graduation and less money spent on things such as tuition 
and living expenses. Two-year degrees are an increasingly popular option, whilst most postgraduate programmes last just one year.

ANSWER:
I like to explore the quality of education, the mixed culture advantage, the interaction with internatonal students from diff part of the world.

/////////////////////
How do your studies fit into your career plans?
Answer preparation: Think about what your plans are after you graduate - how will the knowledge and skills you gain from your programme of study help you with the type of work you hope to do? Does your course lead to any professional qualifications and are these recognised in your country? 
Do you know what others graduating from the course you will be following went on to do? If the course you plan to study is at a similar academic level to previous studies you have undertaken, be prepared to explain how it represents progression and whether it has a vocational focus?

If the costs of pursuing your course of study are higher in the UK than in your home country, why have you decided to incur the extra costs involved with studying in the UK?
Answer preparation: Think about the advantages that a degree from the UK might give you and why you and/or your family are prepared to make this investment. Have you made a realistic assessment of all the costs involved and how you plan to pay for them? Remember that these costs include accommodation and costs of living.

You have previously studied in the UK - why have you chosen to return?
Answer preparation: Think about how the new programme relates to previous studies and how it might build on your previous learning.

You have had a long break in your studies, why are you returning to study now?
Answer preparation: Think about how you explain your decision in the context of your long-term career plans. What did you do during your break in studies? Do you have a job now? Does this new course complement previous studies or will it enable you to do your current job better?

Do you plan to work whilst you study in the UK?
Answer preparation: You cannot rely on funds from working to pay your course fees and living costs so you need to be aware of this. The main purpose for being in the UK is your studies so, if you do hope to work, think about how this would enhance your academic studies. You also need to demonstrate an understanding of the hours you are allowed to work (maximum of 20 hours per week) and typical rates of pay.