



10 things
https://medium.com/@namkam5/10-things-every-front-end-developer-should-know-a6cf6877866f
Where You’ll Work 

Andela is a network of technology leaders dedicated to advancing human potential. We help companies build high-performing distributed engineering teams by investing in the world’s most talented software engineers. 

What You’ll Do 

Use your knowledge in your core technology to delight our clients around the world. 
Collaborate excellently with peers and stakeholders in fast-paced distributed teams, through a love of constructive feedback, dedication and universal respect.
Experience

A minimum of 5 years of professional experience, during which you’ve built technical expertise and professionalism.

Required

Intermediate knowledge of at least one front-end framework -- React, Angular, Vue
Working knowledge of at least one CSS framework -- Bootstrap, Materialize CSS, Semantic UI
Intermediate understanding of JavaScript core language concepts -- DOM manipulation, Fetch API, ES6 features
Working knowledge of unit and integration testing and testing frameworks/libraries -- Jest, Jasmine, Mocha
Working knowledge of at least one task runner -- gulp, npm scripts
Working knowledge of at least one module bundler -- webpack, parcel
Working knowledge of at least one version control tool -- Git, Mercurial
Preferred

Experience with architecture and design principles, building to consider maintainability, performance, security requirements, and impact. 
Knowledge of code linting and formatting tools -- ESLint, Prettier
Working knowledge of Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) architectural pattern.

////////////
Impero Techne Limited was incorporated in 2019 by a group of highly experienced Information Technology experts with its key founding members having a combined experience of 43 years. The Impero Techne team have their core experience profiles in the ICT, Fintech, Energy, Education and Health sectors.

We Are Recruiting To Fill The Position Below

Job Title: Senior Frontend Web Developer (React Js / Angular / VueJs)
Location: Lekki, Lagos
Employment Type: Full-time

Job Requirements
We’d love to meet someone with this Qualifications (C#, Net Core, SQL & .Net Core Web API 3.1)
Candidates should possess Bachelor’s degree
A minimum of 3 years’ experience in the position offered as a Senior Front-End Developer
An innate passion to solve problems, a drive to stay engaged, learn, and level-up quickly.
You have a passion for helping and contributing to a growing development team.
You have a deep understanding of the modern Javascript and React JS.
3 years of experience on: Angular, React Js and VueJs with evidence
Strong Knowledge of C#, .NET Core and .NET Web Api to enable you consume API in frontend.
Familiarity using Scrum / Agile development methodologies
Experience building object-oriented web applications in JavaScript, HTML5, Typescript, Bootstrap and CSS3.
Expertise writing front end code using development languages (JavaScript (ES6), HTML5, CSS3, ARIA, Typescript) and other related UI technologies a must.
Expertise in cascading style sheets (CSS) preprocessors like software as a service (SASS) large scale scrum (LESS), atomic design and responsive design.
Strong OOP skills and SOLID understanding
Thorough knowledge and experience using web technologies to implement user interface design patterns and visual design elements.
Extensive working knowledge with JavaScript build tools and dependency management (npm, bower, grunt)
Expertise working with style guides and bringing UX designs, tools such as Figma, to life through the application of visual design principles.
Experience working with continuous integration, Github, Azure Devops and Git flow methodology.
In-depth understanding of the entire web development process (requirements, design, development, QA, deployment, and maintenance).
Designing, developing, and testing UI for web applications
Using GIT and Azure Devops for version controlling and managing codebases with multiple developers
Accurately translate user and business needs into functional code.
Transform wireframes and prototypes into fully functional, mobile-first, responsive, scalable, flexible, accessible and interactive components.





Front End Developer Application
Formplus is a subscription-based web application that helps businesses know their customers more while improving their business operations. Formplus allows businesses to create online forms, along with progressive offline forms that reach online/offline audiences.

You’ll work with the Front end team to:
Monitor and improve the overall front-end performance
Assist with migration of existing features and components from Angular JS to React JS
Identify and implement better user interactions across the product
Engage in UI Design reviews, and implement designs based on specifications
Write reusable and performant pieces of code that also scale
Document changes and improvements made across the application
Work collaboratively with the team during sprints and perform code reviews on team members work
This might be you if,
You have 1+ years of experience working with React JS and Redux (for state management), and you enjoy adding user interactions to your work.
You take responsibility for your work and enjoy contributing to cross-disciplinary team discussions.
You care about user experience and enjoy making web pages look presentable.
You understand how CSS works in-depth and can transform designs with pixel-perfect execution or close
You have experience building products for multiple devices, and keep this in mind during the development process.
You have knowledge of basic cross-browser compatibility issues and cater to the possibility of things breaking.
You have experience working with CSS pre-processors like SASS
You enjoy fixing performance bottlenecks for static pages and SPAs (Single Page Applications)
You are comfortable taking the lead with technical decisions and enjoy sharing knowledge with others.
You are constantly learning new ways to improve your work
You have excellent troubleshooting skills
This is a full-time onsite position at Yaba, Lagos. However, we work from home twice a week due to the ongoing pandemic.

If you are fit for this role, please click on the start button below to begin your application. This form closes on Saturday, October 24, 2020.

START 




WHAT FREELANCE PROJECTS CAN I GET USING HTML AND CSS?
There’s plenty of work to be had doing relatively small projects using HTML and CSS, but how do you find them?

The most obvious answer is to start building simple websites for clients who need a professional online presence without fancy bells and whistles (you’ll need to learn JavaScript or WordPress to start adding complicated features, but many people don’t need anything flashy).

But what else? Here’s a list of projects you can pick up:

Building landing pages or sales pages
Creating static menus for restaurants
Building multi-page static websites from scratch such as online resumes, simple portfolio pages, or informational websites
Converting PSD files to HTML and CSS
Creating email templates e.g signup page for email platforms (like Mailchimp or Hubspot, for example)
Customizing a WordPress.com or Squarespace.com site
Learning a little bit of design
Pick up one freelance projects on sites like Upwork or Fiverr
Building simple websites for friends, family, and professional connections.

For most of these, you’ll need to know a little bit of something else to get the job done. For example, you’ll need to understand some design basics to create email templates.

“You don’t wanna be a one trick pony,” Tasha says. “You’ll need some additional skills to help you stand out from the crowd. I tell students to consider also learning a little bit of design so they can be more in tune with the projects they are developing.”

WHERE SHOULD YOU LOOK TO FIND FREELANCE HTML AND CSS JOBS?
You can pick up one-off freelance projects on sites like Upwork or Fiverr, though chasing small jobs on those platforms can begin to feel like an uphill battle. It’s a great way to get experience and make some cash on odd jobs, but a hard way to earn a significant amount of money — though some people definitely do find niches there and earn a lot.

html and css jobs on upwork
HTML and CSS jobs available on Upwork at time of publishing.
 
You can also find freelance work building simple websites for friends, family, and professional connections. In fact, this is how many Skillcrush students get their first paying jobs in tech, and it’s the route we usually recommend students take. You’d be surprised how many people in your network are willing to pay you a few hundred o



Here are some HTML and CSS jobs you can get. When sorting through job search platforms, try searching for tech job postings with titles like these:


Junior Developer **
Website Editor **
Social Media Manager
Digital Marketing Coordinator
Content Editor
Content Producer
Digital Production Coordinator
Website Project Manager
Website Support Specialist **
HTML and CSS Production Specialist**
Technical Virtual Assistant
HTML Email Developer Jobs
Email Marketing Specialist
Entry-Level Front End Developer Jobs **
Entry-Level Web Developer **
Webmaster Jobs
WordPress Developer**

 