

//////////
INTERN STORY
https://aanyudeborah.wordpress.com/about/

//////////
https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T236786
xxxxxxxxxxxxx
Amarachi Shulammite Aso
Location: Imo state / Nigeria
IRC/Chat/Forum username: Shula
Public Lab mentor(s): Jeffrey Warren and Sagarpreet Chadha and Cess Wairimu
https://twitter.com/AsoAmarachi
https://github.com/Shulammite-Aso


xxxxxx
Applicants are required to record their contributions in the Outreachy website. Only applicants who have recorded a contribution will be allowed to submit a final application.

xxxxx
When in doubt, ask your mentor how they evaluate contributions. Ask your mentor how they decide which applicant to accept as an intern. Any guidance your mentor provides should be followed, even if it differs from the Outreachy applicant guide.

xxxxxxx
Here are some example questions that mentors may use to evaluate your contributions:

@Do your contributions show you have the required skills for the project?
@Have your contributions shown you can complete complex work?
@Have you worked on contributions that your mentor asked you to work on? 
@Have you worked on contributions that are on the community's task list for Outreachy interns?
@Have you tried using new tools or techniques? Your mentor may have some suggestions for tools, or you may find new open source tools on your own.
@Have you communicated with your mentor via the public community chat?
@Do you communicate in a clear, welcoming, and professional manner?
@Have you asked for help when stuck in a timely manner?
@Do you share your knowledge and help other applicants when they get stuck? @Open source is about collaborating with other community members, and that includes other applicants and interns

xxxxxXXXXX
You will need to submit your final application through the Outreachy website. Go to the Outreachy project list, and click the link for your project. On the page with project details, you should see a link to 'record your contributions and create a final application'.

xxxx
Outreachy internship project timeline. Please work with your mentor to provide a timeline of the work you plan to accomplish on the project and what tasks you will finish at each step. Make sure take into account any time commitments you have during the Outreachy internship round. If you are still working on your contributions and need more time, you can leave this blank and edit your application later.

/////////////////////////
Essay questions
The initial application includes four essay questions:

1.What country will you be living in from May 24, 2021 to August 24, 2021? If you will be living in multiple countries, list the country you will spend the most time in.
-----------------------------------------
Will be living in Nigeria as of the of the internship

2.Are you part of an underrepresented group (in the technology industry of the country listed above)? How are you underrepresented?
Think about the technology industry in the country listed above.
Are there few people who share your identity or background in that technology industry?
Please tell us which underrepresented groups you are a part of. You may want to consider your:
age, body size, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, socio-economic status, nationality
personal appearance, religion, sexual identity and orientation
---------------------------------------------
In the technology industry in my country,Nigeria with the african background and only few poeple sharing my identity as a woman it has be difficult.
Despite decades of progress towards achieving equality in the workplace, women remain significantly under-represented in emerging techechnology in my country. The imbalance between men and women in the technology sector is unlikely to be remedied unless organisations, schools and universities work together to change entrenched perceptions about woman in the tech industry.
In my country Nigeria women currently hold 19% of tech-related jobs at the top tech companies, relative to men who hold 81%. In leadership positions at these tech companies, women make up 28%, with men representing 72%.
https://www.cgdev.org/blog/nigerias-tech-sector-may-be-booming-where-are-women

In my school days I came second position but I was asked by the board of teachers to take 3rd position becos of my headboy who was a male. I wasn't happy but I had to agree.



3.What systemic bias or discrimination would you face if you applied for a job in the technology industry of your country? Think about when you have applied for a job in the technology industry of your country. Do you think you have faced discrimination on the basis of your background or identity? If you have not applied for a job yet, do you think you may be discriminated against on the basis of your background or identity? Please provide specific examples and (optionally) statistics. Outreachy Organizers strongly encourage you to write your personal stories. We want you to know that we won't judge your writing style, grammar or spelling.
NOTE: We want to know about the technology industry in the country you will be living in during the internship. Talk about the discrimination you face in that country's technology industry, not in the international technology industry.
--------------------------------------------
In applying for a job i believe the problem is particularly acute for women of color, Is believe I would face systemic bias or discrimination right from when I'm filling the application form i.e filling wheather male/female it makes me feel that a male canditate would be preferred to me only if I can proof higher performance.
For example I have applied for many internship but few acceptance I feel its due to the fact that I'm a woman,so I try to look for platform that cater for woman so I can get more changes. I was able to get in with a women tech community called SHE CODE AFRICA cos they advocate for black women in technology. 

   The study reinforces earlier findings that the tech industry is like a sieve for underrepresented groups. One study found that women in tech leave their jobs at twice the rate of men. Another found that after about 12 years, about half of women had left their jobs in STEM fields, mostly in computing or engineering. Previous studies mostly focused on the experiences of women in the industry. The Kapor study is one of the first to turn its attention to a nationally representative sample of all groups, including groups that are underrepresented in tech such as women, African Americans and Hispanics.


   

4.Does your learning environment have few people who share your identity or background? Please provide details. 
----------------------------------------------------------
As a person of color, even in IT, you only need to make one mistake and there’s a high probability you'll be written off.”

Contributing to free and open source software takes some skill. You may have already learned some basic skills through university or college classes, specialized schools, online classes, online resources, or with a mentor, friend, family member or co-worker. Does any of your learning environments have few people who share your identity or background? 
-----------------------------
Yes my learning environments have few people who share my identity & background. My identity or background differ from the majority of people in my learning environment because I'm African and a woman. In Africa women are meant to be silent,not allowed to get some level of education talkless of technology. 
The future was less certain before I discovered there are little opportunities and advocate company that trains, hires, and cultivates IT talent in Africa—and which is now training woman in their chosen field. In Nigeria, where I was born and raised, gender stereotypes persist, and girls don’t always have the opportunity to continue learning after high school. This has implications for Nigeria’s high-tech industry: Even though there is a need to fill jobs, talented women have trouble accessing the training needed to meet market demands.


ccccccHow did your identity or background differ from the majority of people in this learning environment? Outreachy Organizers strongly encourage you to write your personal stories. We want you to know that we won't judge your writing style, grammar or spelling.
---------------------------------------
Few years back, there were few women aspiring to complete degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in rural areas in Nigeria.With the absence of African women in sciences, one needed high motivation.So I found myself trying to find out,”  “I am the type of person who takes challenges.”
So after high school I and a female friend of mine embark on taking some computer training, of which I abandoned because there was no support as at then. Fewer girls pursue degrees based in STEM after high school, and even fewer seek STEM-related careers. In the cases where girls do choose a STEM-related career, they are often held back from advancement to senior position by pressures in the home or the workplace. As a result, women are substantially under-represented in the energy sector internationally, as well as in most utilities and the infrastructure sector.



5.What systemic bias or discrimination have you faced while building your skills? Outreachy projects often require applicants to know some basic skills. Those skills might include programming, user experience, documentation, illustration and graphical design, or data science. You may have already learned some basic skills through university or college classes, specialized schools, online classes, online resources, or with a mentor, friend, family member or co-worker. In these settings, have you faced systemic bias or discrimination?
--------------------------------------
A long time ago,when i was still much younger i tried to dive into technology but was afraid of how i would get support mentally & financially because of my identity as a woman. I think of what would my friends and family say. Now that i'm more independent I can now take up technology myself.
I tried to seek help from a family member of mine who is a male and his into technology, he was bias and discrimating to assist me, but I had to try hard to proof to him that i can do it. Many attime he would not want to discuss some concept wiyh me he would say i wouldn't understand so i had to go back and do research on those topics and let him know that i could understand them.He at times discourages me from accessing these resources because of my identity as a female.
Also when i told my friends that i was going into technology they would laugh at me and say i cant cope.They will call to checkup or mock my improvement and ask if i had gotten any intern at all.


Have you been discouraged from accessing these resources because of your identity or background? Please provide specific examples and (optionally) statistics. Outreachy Organizers strongly encourage you to write your personal stories. We want you to know that we won't judge your writing style, grammar or spelling.
------------------------------------------------
Nigerian girls used to be discouraged from science and math at school by traditional cultural and social expectations.Nigerian parents nurtured their daughters for the ‘softer’ jobs, for jobs that seemed like they were not conflict with the authority of the man in the house
Girls’ experiences at school are critical for encouraging their participation in the energy sector in the future, but also in “demystifying” the technical side of the business for those in commercial or support roles.
The World Bank report, Stepping Up Women’s STEM Careers in Infrastructure-An Overview of Promising Approaches (June 2020) shows even minor interventions, such as providing information to girls about the salaries available in male dominated industries, can act as powerful incentives to stick with those subjects.
When I think about workplace policies, women’s care burden like Childcare and lactation it discourages me Remote flextime policies can assist women, who still carry the main share of caregiving responsibilities for both children and ageing parents.
“During my years in high school,One male teacher was very supportive. When he discovered that i was good with arhectectural technical drawings, he kept on looking for a reason to encorage me and made me register for the subject in prefinal exams of which i was the only female student. And because I was good at what I was doing, he kept giving me that support.



XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
2.
In the technology industry in my country, Nigeria  only few people share my identity as a woman in technology. This as resulted in being underrepresented and it has be difficult.
Nigerian girls used to be discouraged from science and math at school by traditional cultural and social expectations. Nigerian parents nurtured their daughters for the ‘softer’ jobs, for jobs that seemed like they were not conflict with the authority of the man in the house
Girls’ experiences at school are critical for encouraging their participation in the energy sector in the future, but also in “demystifying” the technical side of the business for those in commercial or support roles.
Despite decades of progress towards achieving equality in the workplace, women remain significantly under-represented in emerging technology in my country. The imbalance between men and women in the technology sector is unlikely to be remedied unless organizations, schools and universities work together to change entrenched perceptions about woman in the tech industry.
In my school days I came second position but I was asked by the board of teachers to take 3rd position because the headboy who was a male. I wasn't happy but I had to agree.
In my country Nigeria women currently hold 19% of tech-related jobs at the top tech companies, relative to men who hold 81%. In leadership positions at these tech companies, women make up 28%, with men representing 72%.

3.
In applying for a job I believe the problem is particularly acute for women of color, I believe I would face systemic bias or discrimination right from when I'm filling the application form i.e. filling whether male/female it makes me feel that a male candidate would be preferred to me only if I can proof higher performance.
For example I have applied for many internship but few acceptance I feel its due to the fact that I'm a woman, so I try to look for platform that cater for woman so I can get more changes. I was able to get in with a women tech community called SHE CODE AFRICA because they advocate for black women in technology. 
   The study reinforces earlier findings that the tech industry is like a sieve for underrepresented groups like women. One study found that women in tech leave their jobs at twice the rate of men. Another found that after about 12 years, about half of women had left their jobs in STEM fields, mostly in computing or engineering. Previous studies mostly focused on the experiences of women in the industry. The Kapor study directed  its attention to a nationally representative sample of all groups, including groups that are underrepresented in tech such as women, African Americans and Hispanics.


4.
As a woman, even in IT, you only need to make one mistake and there’s a high probability you'll be written off.”
Yes my learning environments have few people who share my identity & background. My identity or background differ from the majority of people in my learning environment because I'm African and a woman. In Africa women are meant to be silent, not allowed to get some level of education talk less of technology. 
Few years back,  I found myself trying to find out,” what opportunity are there for women aspiring to complete degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in rural areas in Nigeria. With the absence of African women in sciences, one needed high motivation. I am the type of person who takes challenges.
So after high school I and a female friend of mine embark on taking some computer training, of which I abandoned because there was no support as at then. Fewer girls pursue degrees based on technology after high school, and even fewer seek technology-related careers. In the cases where girls do choose a technology-related career, they are often held back from advancement  by pressures in the home or the workplace. As a result, women are substantially under-represented in the technology sector in my country , as well as in most utilities and the infrastructure sector.
In Nigeria, where I was born and raised, gender stereotypes persist, and girls don’t always have the opportunity to continue learning after high school. Even though there is a need to fill jobs, talented women have trouble accessing the training needed to meet market demands.
The future was less certain before I discovered there are little opportunities and advocate companies that trains, hires, and cultivates IT talent in women—and which are now training woman in their chosen field. 



5.
A long time ago, when I was still much younger I tried to dive into technology but was afraid of how I would get support mentally & financially because of my identity as a woman. I think of what would my friends and family say. Now that I'm more independent I can now take up technology myself.
I tried to seek help from a family member of mine who is a male and his into technology, he was reluctant. I could see that he was bias and discriminating to assist me, but I had to try hard to proof to him that I can do it. Many at times he wouldn't want to discuss some concept with me he would say I wouldn't understand so I had to go back and do research on those topics and let him know that I could understand them. He at times discourages me from accessing these resources because of my identity as a woman.
Also when I told my friends that I was going into technology they would laugh at me and say I cant cope and that its a man's world. They will call to checkup or mock my improvement and ask if I had gotten any intern at all.
The World Bank report, Stepping Up Women’s STEM Careers in Infrastructure-An Overview of Promising Approaches (June 2020) shows even minor interventions, such as providing information to girls about the salaries available in male dominated industries, can act as powerful incentives to stick with those subjects.
When I think about workplace policies, women’s care burden like Childcare and lactation it discourages me. The lack of  Remote flexible time policies for women who still carry the main share of caregiving responsibilities for both children and ageing parents.
“During my years in high school, One male teacher was very supportive. When he discovered that I was good with architectural technical drawings, he kept on looking for a reason to encourage me and made me register for the subject in prefinal exams of which I was the only female student. And because I was good at what I was doing, he kept giving me that support.



